CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# 🤝 Contributing to Project Vine

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Project Vine! This document provides guidelines and requirements for contributing to the project.

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Development Setup](#development-setup)
- [Quality Requirements](#quality-requirements)
- [Contribution Process](#contribution-process)
- [Code Style Guidelines](#code-style-guidelines)
- [Testing Requirements](#testing-requirements)
- [Documentation Standards](#documentation-standards)
- [Review Process](#review-process)

## 📜 Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to maintain a respectful environment for everyone. We are committed to providing a welcoming and inspiring community for all.

## 🛠️ Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- **Python 3.11+**: Required for modern type hints and features
- **uv**: Fast Python package manager (recommended)
- **Git**: Version control system

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jeffrichley/vine.git
cd vine

# Install with uv (recommended)
uv sync

# Or install with pip
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install in editable mode for development
uv pip install -e ".[dev,docs]"
```

### Development Environment

```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Unix/macOS
# or
.venv\Scripts\activate     # On Windows

# Verify installation
uv run dev info
```

## 🎯 Quality Requirements

Project Vine maintains strict quality standards. **All contributions must pass these quality gates:**

### Quality Gates

1. **🔍 Linting (Ruff)**: Code style and best practices
2. **🧠 Type Safety (MyPy)**: Strict type checking with zero errors
3. **📊 Coverage (≥80%)**: Comprehensive test coverage
4. **📈 Complexity (Xenon)**: Maintainable code complexity
5. **🧹 Dead Code (Vulture)**: No unused code or imports
6. **🔒 Security (pip-audit)**: No dependency vulnerabilities


### Pre-commit Checks

```bash
# Run all quality checks
uv run dev checkit

# Individual checks
uv run dev lint          # Ruff linting
uv run dev typecheck     # MyPy type checking
uv run dev test          # Pytest with coverage
uv run dev quality-gates # All quality gates
```

## 🔄 Contribution Process

### 1. Fork and Clone

```bash
# Fork the repository on GitHub
# Clone your fork
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/vine.git
cd vine

# Add upstream remote
git remote add upstream https://github.com/jeffrichley/vine.git
```

### 2. Create a Feature Branch

```bash
# Create and switch to a new branch
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name

# Or for bug fixes
git checkout -b fix/your-bug-description
```

### 3. Make Your Changes

- Follow the [Code Style Guidelines](#code-style-guidelines)
- Write comprehensive tests
- Update documentation as needed
- Ensure all quality gates pass

### 4. Test Your Changes

```bash
# Run all tests
uv run dev test

# Run quality gates
uv run dev quality-gates

# Run benchmarks (if applicable)
uv run dev benchmark
```

### 5. Commit Your Changes

```bash
# Stage your changes
git add .

# Commit with a descriptive message
git commit -m "feat: add new video transition effect

- Implement crossfade transition
- Add comprehensive tests
- Update documentation
- Fixes #123"
```

### 6. Push and Create Pull Request

```bash
# Push to your fork
git push origin feature/your-feature-name

# Create a Pull Request on GitHub
```

## 📝 Code Style Guidelines

### Python Code Style

- **Black**: Automatic code formatting (line length: 88)
- **Ruff**: Linting and import sorting
- **Type Hints**: Required for all functions and methods
- **Docstrings**: Google-style docstrings for all public APIs

### Import Organization

```python
# Standard library imports
import os
import sys
from typing import List, Optional

# Third-party imports
import numpy as np
import pydantic

# Local imports
from vine.models import VideoSpec
from vine.rendering import VideoRenderer
```

### Type Annotations

```python
# Required for all functions
def process_video(spec: VideoSpec, output_path: str) -> bool:
    """Process a video specification and save to output path.

    Args:
        spec: The video specification to process
        output_path: Path where the video will be saved

    Returns:
        True if processing was successful, False otherwise
    """
    pass
```

### Error Handling

```python
# Use specific exceptions
try:
    result = process_data(data)
except ValueError as e:
    logger.error(f"Invalid data format: {e}")
    raise
except FileNotFoundError as e:
    logger.error(f"Required file not found: {e}")
    raise
```

## 🧪 Testing Requirements

### Test Coverage

- **Minimum Coverage**: 80% overall
- **New Code**: 100% coverage required
- **Critical Paths**: 100% coverage required

### Test Structure

```python
# tests/unit/test_video_spec.py
import pytest
from vine.models import VideoSpec

class TestVideoSpec:
    def test_video_spec_creation(self):
        """Test VideoSpec creation with valid parameters."""
        spec = VideoSpec(
            width=1920,
            height=1080,
            duration=10.0
        )
        assert spec.width == 1920
        assert spec.height == 1080
        assert spec.duration == 10.0

    def test_video_spec_validation(self):
        """Test VideoSpec validation with invalid parameters."""
        with pytest.raises(ValueError):
            VideoSpec(width=-1, height=1080, duration=10.0)
```

### Property-Based Testing

```python
# Use Hypothesis for property-based testing
from hypothesis import given, strategies as st

@given(st.integers(min_value=1, max_value=3840))
def test_video_width_validation(width):
    """Test that video width validation works for all valid values."""
    spec = VideoSpec(width=width, height=1080, duration=10.0)
    assert spec.width == width
```

## 📚 Documentation Standards

### Docstring Requirements

- **All public APIs**: Must have Google-style docstrings
- **Parameters**: Document all parameters with types
- **Returns**: Document return values and types
- **Examples**: Include usage examples for complex functions

### Example Docstring

```python
def create_video_timeline(
    clips: List[VideoClip],
    transitions: Optional[List[Transition]] = None,
    duration: Optional[float] = None
) -> VideoTimeline:
    """Create a video timeline from a list of clips.

    Args:
        clips: List of video clips to include in the timeline
        transitions: Optional list of transitions between clips
        duration: Optional total duration (auto-calculated if None)

    Returns:
        A VideoTimeline object representing the composed video

    Raises:
        ValueError: If clips list is empty or invalid
        TypeError: If clips contain invalid types

    Example:
        >>> clips = [VideoClip("video1.mp4"), VideoClip("video2.mp4")]
        >>> timeline = create_video_timeline(clips)
        >>> timeline.render("output.mp4")
    """
    pass
```

### README Updates

- Update README.md for user-facing changes
- Update API documentation for technical changes
- Include examples for new features

## 👀 Review Process

### Pull Request Requirements

1. **Quality Gates**: All quality gates must pass
2. **Tests**: All tests must pass
3. **Documentation**: Updated as needed
4. **Description**: Clear description of changes
5. **Linked Issues**: Reference related issues

### Review Checklist

- [ ] Code follows style guidelines
- [ ] Type hints are complete and correct
- [ ] Tests are comprehensive and pass
- [ ] Documentation is updated
- [ ] No breaking changes (or properly documented)
- [ ] Performance impact considered
- [ ] Security implications reviewed

### Review Timeline

- **Initial Review**: Within 48 hours
- **Follow-up Reviews**: Within 24 hours
- **Merge**: After approval and CI passes

## 🚀 Getting Help

### Questions and Discussions

- **GitHub Issues**: For bug reports and feature requests
- **GitHub Discussions**: For questions and general discussion
- **Documentation**: Check the docs/ directory for detailed guides

### Development Resources

- **API Documentation**: `docs/api/`
- **Architecture Guide**: `docs/ARCHITECTURE_PATTERNS.md`
- **Quality Gates**: `docs/QUALITY_GATES.md`
- **Project Status**: `docs/STATUS.md`

## 🎉 Recognition

Contributors will be recognized in:

- **README.md**: For significant contributions
- **CHANGELOG.md**: For all contributions
- **GitHub Contributors**: Automatic recognition

Thank you for contributing to Project Vine! 🎬

Commit message:

feat(template): complete Seedling template with script cleanup and enhanced documentation
- Remove all Vine-specific scripts (13 deleted)
- Clean up pyproject.toml dependencies (keep only Pydantic)
- Remove Vine-specific classifiers and import bans
- Add comprehensive documentation for all tool configurations
- Update seedling directory structure and documentation
- Fix license templating and version management
- Verify template generation works end-to-end

Template now generates clean, generic Python projects with:
- Modern development tooling (uv, nox, pre-commit)
- Comprehensive quality checks and documentation
- Pydantic for data validation
- GitHub Actions CI/CD workflows

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# 🤝 Contributing to {{ project_name }}

Thank you for your interest in contributing to {{ project_name }}! This document provides guidelines and requirements for contributing to the project.

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Development Setup](#development-setup)
- [Quality Requirements](#quality-requirements)
- [Contribution Process](#contribution-process)
- [Code Style Guidelines](#code-style-guidelines)
- [Testing Requirements](#testing-requirements)
- [Documentation Standards](#documentation-standards)
- [Review Process](#review-process)

## 📜 Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to maintain a respectful environment for everyone. We are committed to providing a welcoming and inspiring community for all.

## 🛠️ Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- **Python 3.11+**: Required for modern type hints and features
- **uv**: Fast Python package manager (recommended)
- **Git**: Version control system

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/{{ github_username }}/{{ project_slug }}.git
cd {{ project_slug }}

# Install with uv (recommended)
uv sync

# Or install with pip
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install in editable mode for development
uv pip install -e ".[dev,docs]"
```

### Development Environment

```bash
# Activate virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Unix/macOS
# or
.venv\Scripts\activate     # On Windows

# Verify installation
uv run dev info
```

## 🎯 Quality Requirements

{{ project_name }} maintains strict quality standards. **All contributions must pass these quality gates:**

### Quality Gates

1. **🔍 Linting (Ruff)**: Code style and best practices
2. **🧠 Type Safety (MyPy)**: Strict type checking with zero errors
3. **📊 Coverage (≥80%)**: Comprehensive test coverage
4. **📈 Complexity (Xenon)**: Maintainable code complexity
5. **🧹 Dead Code (Vulture)**: No unused code or imports
6. **🔒 Security (pip-audit)**: No dependency vulnerabilities


### Pre-commit Checks

```bash
# Run all quality checks
uv run dev checkit

# Individual checks
uv run dev lint          # Ruff linting
uv run dev typecheck     # MyPy type checking
uv run dev test          # Pytest with coverage
uv run dev quality-gates # All quality gates
```

## 🔄 Contribution Process

### 1. Fork and Clone

```bash
# Fork the repository on GitHub
# Clone your fork
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/{{ project_slug }}.git
cd {{ project_slug }}

# Add upstream remote
git remote add upstream https://github.com/{{ github_username }}/{{ project_slug }}.git
```

### 2. Create a Feature Branch

```bash
# Create and switch to a new branch
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name

# Or for bug fixes
git checkout -b fix/your-bug-description
```

### 3. Make Your Changes

- Follow the [Code Style Guidelines](#code-style-guidelines)
- Write comprehensive tests
- Update documentation as needed
- Ensure all quality gates pass

### 4. Test Your Changes

```bash
# Run all tests
uv run dev test

# Run quality gates
uv run dev quality-gates

# Run benchmarks (if applicable)
uv run dev benchmark
```

### 5. Commit Your Changes

```bash
# Stage your changes
git add .

# Commit with a descriptive message
git commit -m "feat: add new video transition effect

- Implement crossfade transition
- Add comprehensive tests
- Update documentation
- Fixes #123"
```

### 6. Push and Create Pull Request

```bash
# Push to your fork
git push origin feature/your-feature-name

# Create a Pull Request on GitHub
```

## 📝 Code Style Guidelines

### Python Code Style

- **Black**: Automatic code formatting (line length: 88)
- **Ruff**: Linting and import sorting
- **Type Hints**: Required for all functions and methods
- **Docstrings**: Google-style docstrings for all public APIs

### Import Organization

```python
# Standard library imports
import os
import sys
from typing import List, Optional

# Third-party imports
import numpy as np
import pydantic

# Local imports
from vine.models import VideoSpec
from vine.rendering import VideoRenderer
```

### Type Annotations

```python
# Required for all functions
def process_video(spec: VideoSpec, output_path: str) -> bool:
    """Process a video specification and save to output path.

    Args:
        spec: The video specification to process
        output_path: Path where the video will be saved

    Returns:
        True if processing was successful, False otherwise
    """
    pass
```

### Error Handling

```python
# Use specific exceptions
try:
    result = process_data(data)
except ValueError as e:
    logger.error(f"Invalid data format: {e}")
    raise
except FileNotFoundError as e:
    logger.error(f"Required file not found: {e}")
    raise
```

## 🧪 Testing Requirements

### Test Coverage

- **Minimum Coverage**: 80% overall
- **New Code**: 100% coverage required
- **Critical Paths**: 100% coverage required

### Test Structure

```python
# tests/unit/test_video_spec.py
import pytest
from vine.models import VideoSpec

class TestVideoSpec:
    def test_video_spec_creation(self):
        """Test VideoSpec creation with valid parameters."""
        spec = VideoSpec(
            width=1920,
            height=1080,
            duration=10.0
        )
        assert spec.width == 1920
        assert spec.height == 1080
        assert spec.duration == 10.0

    def test_video_spec_validation(self):
        """Test VideoSpec validation with invalid parameters."""
        with pytest.raises(ValueError):
            VideoSpec(width=-1, height=1080, duration=10.0)
```

### Property-Based Testing

```python
# Use Hypothesis for property-based testing
from hypothesis import given, strategies as st

@given(st.integers(min_value=1, max_value=3840))
def test_video_width_validation(width):
    """Test that video width validation works for all valid values."""
    spec = VideoSpec(width=width, height=1080, duration=10.0)
    assert spec.width == width
```

## 📚 Documentation Standards

### Docstring Requirements

- **All public APIs**: Must have Google-style docstrings
- **Parameters**: Document all parameters with types
- **Returns**: Document return values and types
- **Examples**: Include usage examples for complex functions

### Example Docstring

```python
def create_video_timeline(
    clips: List[VideoClip],
    transitions: Optional[List[Transition]] = None,
    duration: Optional[float] = None
) -> VideoTimeline:
    """Create a video timeline from a list of clips.

    Args:
        clips: List of video clips to include in the timeline
        transitions: Optional list of transitions between clips
        duration: Optional total duration (auto-calculated if None)

    Returns:
        A VideoTimeline object representing the composed video

    Raises:
        ValueError: If clips list is empty or invalid
        TypeError: If clips contain invalid types

    Example:
        >>> clips = [VideoClip("video1.mp4"), VideoClip("video2.mp4")]
        >>> timeline = create_video_timeline(clips)
        >>> timeline.render("output.mp4")
    """
    pass
```

### README Updates

- Update README.md for user-facing changes
- Update API documentation for technical changes
- Include examples for new features

## 👀 Review Process

### Pull Request Requirements

1. **Quality Gates**: All quality gates must pass
2. **Tests**: All tests must pass
3. **Documentation**: Updated as needed
4. **Description**: Clear description of changes
5. **Linked Issues**: Reference related issues

### Review Checklist

- [ ] Code follows style guidelines
- [ ] Type hints are complete and correct
- [ ] Tests are comprehensive and pass
- [ ] Documentation is updated
- [ ] No breaking changes (or properly documented)
- [ ] Performance impact considered
- [ ] Security implications reviewed

### Review Timeline

- **Initial Review**: Within 48 hours
- **Follow-up Reviews**: Within 24 hours
- **Merge**: After approval and CI passes

## 🚀 Getting Help

### Questions and Discussions

- **GitHub Issues**: For bug reports and feature requests
- **GitHub Discussions**: For questions and general discussion
- **Documentation**: Check the docs/ directory for detailed guides

### Development Resources

- **API Documentation**: `docs/api/`
- **Architecture Guide**: `docs/ARCHITECTURE_PATTERNS.md`
- **Quality Gates**: `docs/QUALITY_GATES.md`
- **Project Status**: `docs/STATUS.md`

## 🎉 Recognition

Contributors will be recognized in:

- **README.md**: For significant contributions
- **CHANGELOG.md**: For all contributions
- **GitHub Contributors**: Automatic recognition

Thank you for contributing to Project Vine! 🎬
